# Audit / Deny Public Network Access property

This policy provides support to audit resources that has *publicNetworkAccess* property configured as *Enabled*. It helps to identify services that are accesible from Internet or to block their creation to avoid any security or data exfiltration incident.

## Pre-requisities for testing this policy

- A scope (i.e. resource group, subscription or management group) with existing deployed resources this policy would apply to or where resources provided by the template in this repository would be deployed.

## Important considerations

N/A

## Step-by-step scenario

### How to manually test this policy

1. The first step is to create a new custom policy using the definition avaialble in [audit-deny-publicNetworkAccess-policy.json](./1.%20Audit%20Public%20Network%20Access%20Property/audit-deny-publicNetworkAccess-policy.json). You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to implement a new custom policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#implement-a-new-custom-policy).
2. After the policy has been created, the next step is to assign it. You need to associate the policy's assignment scope to the right resource group, subscription or management group in your environment. You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to create a policy assigment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-portal).
3. If you dont't have resources created to test this policy, you can use the template [private-enabled-services.json](./common/private-enabled-services.json) that deploys an instance of several services that support the Public Network Access property. [You can use Azure Portal, PowerShell or CLI to complete your deployment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deployment-tutorial-local-template?tabs=azure-powershell). Remember to deploy yor resources in the same scope you configured the policy assignment.
4. Check [the initial compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#check-initial-compliance) to validate the policy is working as expected

### How to automatically test this policy

If you don't want to configure all the previous steps manually, you can deploy a reference scenario from scratch using the [step-by-step-example-audit-pna.ps1](./1.%20Audit%20Public%20Network%20Access%20Property/step-by-step-example-audit-pna.ps1) script. It follows the next steps:

1. Creates one resources group to deploy every resource that support *publicNetworkAccess* alias to evaluate the policy. Other services could be deployed because a single template is used for all scenarios in this repository.
2. Create the policy and an assigment with a scope associated to the resource group where Azure services are deployed.
3. Deploy the resources.
4. Force an Azure Policy compliance scan.

You should wait till the scan is completed to review the Compliance information inside Azure Portal.

### How to delete it

You can remove the reference scenario using the [step-by-step-delete-example-audit-pna.ps1](./1.%20Audit%20Public%20Network%20Access%20Property/step-by-step-delete-example-audit-pna.ps1) script.

## Policy configuration

### Required parameters

N/A

### Optional parameters

- *effect*
  - "type": "string",
  - "displayName": "Select the effect of this policy",
  - "description": "Configures the effect of this policy. Default value is Audit."
