# Private Endpoint - Deploy if not exist

This policy provides the option to automatically create Private Endpoints for all the services that support them inside your environment. If the resources already exists, the policy mark them as uncompliance and a Remediation Taks needs to be executed; if they are just being created, it automatically deploys the associated Private Endpoint.

## Pre-requisities for testing this policy

- A subnet where the private endpoints would be deployed. Private Endpoints would be deployed in the same region and subscriptions as the Virtual network.
- A resource group where Private Endpoints and their associated NIC objects would be created.
- A resource group where the resources associated with the Azure Deployment Script used in this policy to obtain the required configuration for creating the Private Endpoints would be temporarily created.
- A resource group where the resources to be analyzed by the policy would be deployed.
- A User Managed Identity with Read access at the scope where the policy would be applied (i.e. Subscription Reader)
- A storage account where temporal resources would be created by the Azure Deployment Script included in this policy.

## Important considerations

- Managed Identity created automatically by Azure Policy for the remediation tasks has only access to the scope where the policy is being applied. You should assign this managed identity access to the subscription as a contributor to be able to deploy the resources cross-resource group if the Policy scope is not assigned at the subscription level.
- Resource group where the resources associated with the Azure Deployment Script are deployed should be excluded from the policy evaluation. If it is not excluded, it could generate an inifinite loop of deployments trying to configure the Private Endpoinst associated to this temporal resources.

## Step-by-step scenario

### How to manually test this policy

1. This policy requires a resource group where temporal resources used by this policy would be deployed. It could already exist or they can be newly created. You can follow [this documentation article to understand how you can create a new resource group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal#create-resource-groups)
2. In the previous resource group you would need to [create an storage account](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-create?tabs=azure-portal) and a [User Managed Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities?pivots=identity-mi-methods-azp#create-a-user-assigned-managed-identity). This managed identity needs to have at least Read access to the scope where the resources are deployed to obtain the required information to create a Private Endpoint.
3. The second step is to create a new custom policy using the definition avaialble in [dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.json](./2.%20Deploy%20Private%20Endpoint%20if%20not%20exists/Single%20subscription/dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.json). You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to implement a new custom policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#implement-a-new-custom-policy).
4. After the policy has been created, the next step is to assign it. You need to associate the policy's assignment scope to the right resource group, subscription or management group in your environment. You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to create a policy assigment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-portal).The following parameters needs to be defined:
    - *privateEndpointResourceGroupName*: you need to specify the resource group where the Private Endpoint resources would be created. This resource groups needs to be defined in the same subscription where the resources are deployed.
    - *privateEndpointSubnetId*: the resource id associated with the subnet where the Private Endpoints would be created.
    - *excludedPrivateEndpointResourceTypes*: if you don't want to create Private Endpoints for all available resource types, you can add in this array a list of the excluded resources. Policy would evaluate the elements of this array to decide if the Private Endpoint is created or not. As an example, you can deny the creation of a Private Endpoint for an Azure Storage Queue adding the following element "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/queue".
    - *scriptDeploymentResourceGroupName*: the resource group where temporal resources would be provisioned, this resource groups needs to be excluded from the policy scope to avoid errors.
    - *scriptDeploymentStorageAccountId*: the resource id associated with the storage account created in step 2.
    - *scriptDeploymentManagedIdentityId*: the resource id assocaited with the managed identity created in step 2.

5. If you dont't have resources created to test this policy, you can use the template [private-enabled-services.json](./common/private-enabled-services.json) that deploys an instance of several services that support the Public Network Access property. [You can use Azure Portal, PowerShell or CLI to complete your deployment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deployment-tutorial-local-template?tabs=azure-powershell). Remember to deploy yor resources in the same scope you configured the policy assignment.
6. Check [the initial compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#check-initial-compliance) to validate the policy is working as expected. If needed, you can create a Remediation Task for existing resources deployed before the policy was applied.

### How to automatically test this policy

If you don't want to configure all the previous steps manually, you can deploy a reference scenario from scratch using the [step-by-step-example-dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.ps1](./2.%20Deploy%20Private%20Endpoint%20if%20not%20exists/Single%20subscription/dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.json) script. It follows the next steps:

1. Create three resources group to:
    - Group all networking resources.
    - Deploy required resources for the policy.
    - Deploy every resource that support Private Endpoint to evaluate the policy.
2. Create a virtual network with a default subnet with *privateEndpointNetworkPolicies* property disabled.
3. Create a storage account and a managed identity used by the policy.
4. Create the policy an assigment with a scope associated to the resource group where Azure services are deployed.
5. Assign the proper RBAC permissions to managed identities.
6. Deploy the resources.

After that, you should wait till the Policy is trigerred and your private endpoints would be created in your networking resource group.

### How to delete it

You can renove the reference scenario using the [step-by-step-example-delete-dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.ps1](./2.%20Deploy%20Private%20Endpoint%20if%20not%20exists/Single%20subscription/step-by-step-example-delete-dine-privateEndpoint-singleSubscription-policy.ps1) script.

## Policy configuration

### Required parameters

- *privateEndpointResourceGroupName*
  - "type": "string",
  - "displayName": "Resource group where private endpoints would be created",
  - "description": "Private endpoints and their associate network interfaces would be deployed inside this specific resource group."

- *privateEndpointSubnetId*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Private endpoint subnet id where Private Endpoints would be created",
  - "description": "Subnet where all resources associated with the private endpoint would be created. Subnet should have the private endpoint network policies property disabled.",
  - "strongType": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets"

- *excludedPrivateEndpointResourceTypes*
  - "type": "Array",
  - "displayName": "Group Ids excluded from private endpoint creation",
  - "description": "A list of the group ids that you are not interested in creating a private endpoint automatically"

- *scriptDeploymentResourceGroupName*
  - "type": "string",
  - "displayName": "Resource group where temporary resources would be created",
  - "description": "Deployment Scripts associated resources would be deployed inside this specific resource group."

- *scriptDeploymentStorageAccountId*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Storage account where required scripts by this policy would be stored.",
  - "description": "This policy uses Azure Resource Manager Deployment Scripts to automatically configure your private endpoints associated with the resources defined by parameter  privateLinkAvailableResourceTypes. Deployment Scripts requires an storage account to store its temporal data.",
  - "strongType": "Microsoft.Storage/storageaccounts"

- *scriptDeploymentManagedIdentityId*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Managed Identity resource id required to deploy your private endpoints",
  - "description": "Your managed identity is used to query the required information in your subscription to automatically configure your private endpoints associated with the resources defiined by parameter privateLinkAvailableResourceTypes. It should be defined in the following format /subscriptions/[Subscription Id]/resourceGroups/[Resource Group]/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/[UserManagedIdentityName]"

### Optional parameters

- *privateEndpointNamePrefix*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Private Endpoint Name Prefix",
  - "description": "A prefix used to configure the private endpoint name. Suffix is automatically generated as a combination of the resource group and subnet name"

- *privateLinkAvailableResourceTypes*
  - "type": "Array",
  - "displayName": "Resource types available to be evaluated",
  - "description": "Collection of resource types that would be automatically configured with a private endpoint using this policy if is not in the exclude list defined by parameter excludedPrivateEndpointResourceTypes"
