
# Audit / Deny Private Endpoints outside allowed subscriptions

This policy provides support to audit existing Private Endpoints that connects to resources outside of the allowed subscriptions. It also support blocking its deployment to avoid any security or data exfiltration incident.

## Pre-requisities for testing this policy

- A scope (i.e. resource group, subscription or management group) with existing deployed resources this policy would apply to or where resources provided by the template in this repository would be deployed.

## Important considerations

N/A

## Step-by-step scenario

### How to manually test this policy

1. The first step is to create a new custom policy using the definition avaialble in [audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.json](./4.%20Other%20policies/4.1%20Audit%20Private%20Endpoints%20outside%20allowed subscriptions/audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.json). You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to implement a new custom policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#implement-a-new-custom-policy).
2. After the policy has been created, the next step is to assign it. You need to associate the policy's assignment scope to the right resource group, subscription or management group in your environment where you Private Endpoints are created. You can [follow the tutorial available in the documentation on how to create a policy assigment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-portal).
3. If you dont't have resources created to test this policy, you can use the template [private-enabled-services.json](./common/private-enabled-services.json) that deploys an instance of several services that support the Public Network Access property. [You can use Azure Portal, PowerShell or CLI to complete your deployment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/deployment-tutorial-local-template?tabs=azure-powershell). Remember to deploy yor resources in the same scope you configured the policy assignment. The following parameters needs to be defined:
    - *allowedSubscriptions*: you need to specify the an array of subscriptions id that contain the resources allowed as a destination for the Private Endpoints.
4. Check [the initial compliance](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage#check-initial-compliance) to validate the policy is working as expected

### How to automatically test this policy

You can deploy a reference scenario from scratch using the [step-by-step-example-audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions](4.%20Other%20policies\4.1%20Audit%20Private%20Endpoints%20outside%20allowed%20subscriptions\step-by-step-example-audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.ps1) script. It follows the sames steps than policy "Deploy Private Endpoint if not exists"

1. Create three resources group to:
    - Group all networking resources.
    - Deploy required resources for the policy.
    - Deploy every resource that support Private Endpoint to evaluate the policy.
2. Create a virtual network with a default subnet with *privateEndpointNetworkPolicies* property disabled.
3. Create a storage account and a managed identity used by the policy.
4. Create the policy an assigment with a scope associated to the resource group where Azure services are deployed.
5. Assign the proper RBAC permissions to managed identitys.
6. Deploy the resources.

After that, you should wait till the Policy is trigerred and your private endpoints would be created in your networking resource group. Once the Private Endpoints are avaiable you would obtain your compliance results.

### How to delete it

You can renove the reference scenario using the [step-by-step-example-delet-audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions](4.%20Other%20policies\4.1%20Audit%20Private%20Endpoints%20outside%20allowed%20subscriptions\step-by-step-example-delet-audit-deny-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.ps1) script.

## Policy configuration

### Required parameters

- *allowedSubscriptions*
  - "type": "Array",
  - "displayName": "Allowed subscriptions",
  - "description": "List of subscriptions that contain resources allowed as a target for a Private Endpoint"

### Optional parameters

- *effect*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Select the effect of this policy",
  - "description": "Configures the effect of this policy. Default value is Audit."
