
# Audit / Deny resources with Private Endpoints outside allowed subscriptions

This policy provides support to audit resources that contain Private Endpoints outside of the allowed subscriptions. It also support blocking its deployment to avoid security issues.

## Pre-requisities

- A subnet where the private endpoints would be deployed.
- A resource group where private endpoints and their associated NIC objects would be created.
- A resource group where the resources associated with the Azure Deployment Script included in this policy would be temporarily created.
- A User Managed Identity with Read access at the scope where the policy would be applied (i.e. Subscription Reader)
- A storage account where temporal resources would be created by the Azure Deployment Script included in this policy.

## Important considerations

- Managed Identity created automatically by Azure Policy for the remediation tasks has only access to the scope where the policy is being applied. You should assign this managed identity access to the subscription as a contributor to be able to deploy the resources cross-resource group if the Policy scope is not assigned at the subscription level.
- Resource group where the resources associated with the Azure Deployment Script are deployed should be excluded from the policy evaluation. It could generate an inifinite loop of deployments of this policy.

## Step-by-step scenario

### How to create it

You can deploy a reference scenario from scratch using the [step-by-step-example-audit-deny-resources-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions](4.%20Other%20policies\4.2%20Audit%20resources%20with%20Private%20Endpoints%20outside%20allowed%20subscriptions\step-by-step-example-audit-deny-resources-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.ps1) script. It follows the sames steps than policy "Deploy Private Endpoint if not exists"

1. Create three resources group to:
    - Group all networking resources.
    - Deploy required resources for the policy.
    - Deploy every resource that support Private Endpoint to evaluate the policy.
2. Create a virtual network with a default subnet with *privateEndpointNetworkPolicies* property disabled.
3. Create a storage account and a managed identity used by the policy.
4. Create the policy an assigment with a scope associated to the resource group where Azure services are deployed.
5. Assign the proper RBAC permissions to managed identitys.
6. Deploy the resources.

After that, you should wait till the Policy is trigerred and your private endpoints would be created in your networking resource group. Once the Private Endpoints are avaiable you would obtain your compliance results.

### How to delete it

You can renove the reference scenario using the [step-by-step-example-delet-audit-deny-resources-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions](4.%20Other%20policies\4.2%20Audit%20resources%20with%20Private%20Endpoints%20outside%20allowed%20subscriptions\step-by-step-example-delete-audit-deny-resources-private-endpoints-outside-subscriptions.ps1) script.

## Policy configuration

### Required parameters

- *allowedSubscriptions*
  - "type": "Array",
  - "displayName": "Allowed subscriptions",
  - "description": "List of subscriptions that contain resources allowed as a target for a Private Endpoint"

### Optional parameters

- *effect*
  - "type": "String",
  - "displayName": "Select the effect of this policy",
  - "description": "Configures the effect of this policy. Default value is Audit."
  